**INTRODUCTION:**

The Intervention Monitoring System version 2 is an application developed
to monitor the interventions provided to the Pantawid beneficiaries by
the DSWD XII and external interventions provided by local government
units, civil security organizations, and other national government
agencies. This version of the application is much more secure than the
previous version 1.2 because it has been redeveloped from procedural to
the Model-View-Controller (MVC) architecture. Additionally, the
developer has incorporated encryption on user login credentials to
ensure further security.

**SYSTEM OVERVIEW:**

The Intervention Monitoring System version 2 has been developed to track
the interventions provided to the Pantawid beneficiaries. This
application is used by the DSWD XII, local government units, civil
security organizations, and other national government agencies. The
system is designed to be user-friendly, secure, and efficient.

**THE APPLICATION HAS THREE MAIN COMPONENTS, NAMELY:**

1.  Model: The Model component is responsible for managing data and the
    application's business logic. It stores the data in a database and
    ensures data consistency, validity, and security.

2.  View: The View component is responsible for providing a graphical
    interface to the user. It allows users to interact with the system
    and displays information related to the interventions provided.

3.  Controller: The Controller component is responsible for processing
    user input, updating the model, and rendering the view. It acts as
    the intermediary between the Model and the View components.

**FEATURES:**

1.  The Intervention Monitoring System version 2 comes with a range of
    features that enhance its functionality and usability. Some of these
    features include:

2.  Secure Login: The developer has incorporated encryption on user
    login credentials, ensuring that the application is secure.

3.  User Management: The application has a user management feature that
    allows the system administrator to create, delete, and modify user
    accounts. Additionally, the system administrator can define the
    user's role and permissions within the system.

4.  Intervention Tracking: The application allows the user to track
    interventions provided to Pantawid beneficiaries. The user can view
    the status of the interventions and generate reports.

5.  Integration with Other Systems: The Intervention Monitoring System
    version 2 can integrate with other systems to provide a seamless
    user experience. This integration allows for the sharing of data
    between different applications, enhancing the efficiency of the
    system.

This application comes with a range of features that enhance its
functionality and usability. This version is currently in the
development stage and will soon be finalized once the final result of
the Social Welfare Development Indicator (SWDI) 2023 is released.

**  
**

**END USERS**

The end-users of the Intervention Monitoring System version 2 are the
Municipal Links of Pantawid Pamilyang Program. Their primary role is to
encode the interventions provided by the program, as well as those
provided by other departments, external programs from local government
units, civil security organizations, and other national government
agencies. They are responsible for ensuring that the information entered
into the system is accurate and up-to-date, to facilitate the monitoring
and evaluation of the interventions provided to Pantawid beneficiaries.

**USE CASE**

End User: Municipal Links (End User)

Precondition: The Municipal Link is logged into the Intervention
Monitoring System and has access to the Record Intervention
functionality.

*Basic Flow:*

1.  The Municipal Link selects the Record Intervention option from the
    system's menu.

2.  The system presents a form for the Municipal Link to enter the
    intervention details, including the beneficiary's name, the
    intervention type, and the date it was provided.

3.  The Municipal Link enters the intervention details into the form and
    submits it to the system.

4.  The system validates the intervention details and saves it to the
    database.

5.  The system displays a success message to the Municipal Link and
    returns them to the main menu.

*Alternate Flows:*

-   If the Municipal Link enters invalid or incomplete intervention
    details, the system displays an error message and prompts the
    Municipal Link to correct the errors before resubmitting the form.

-   If the system encounters an error while saving the intervention
    details to the database, it displays an error message to the
    Municipal Link and prompts them to retry the submission or contact
    technical support.

> Postcondition: The intervention is recorded in the system and can be
> viewed by authorized users for reporting and analysis purposes.

Conclusion:

The Intervention Monitoring System version 2 is a secure and efficient
application developed to track interventions provided to the Pantawid
beneficiaries. The application is developed using the
Model-View-Controller architecture, which makes it more efficient and
user-friendly. The developer has incorporated encryption on user login
credentials, ensuring that the application is secure. The
